:title: Mall-E
:date: 2014
:image: cabin.png
:client: ?
:Client_Link: ?
:Service: Design and Prototype Fabrication

.. raw:: html

   <iframe width="560" height="315"
   src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/rloCGs7dZJQ" frameborder="0"
   allowfullscreen></iframe>

| Team: Jacob Chavez, Andria Farrens, Patrick Reding, Albert Zhu
| Faculty Advisor: Prof. Cristina Davis

Under the direction of Prof. Cristina Davis of the Department of Mechanical and
Aerospace Engineering at UC Davis, this team of seniors were tasked with
measuring and plotting the magnetic field within the beam deflector of the
Crocker Nuclear Lab's particle accelerator. The deflector unit is used to
manipulate a beam of particles generated by the cyclotron. The deflector can
focus beams of protons, deuterons, alpha, and helium particles; these different
particles hold different purposes. We chose to complete this task using an
autonomous probing robot. Our group utilized a Parallax ActivityBot with a few
objective-specific modifications. Our design includes a hall sensor, which
allows the robot to measure magnetic fields. The robot is capable of moving the
hall sensor vertically along a screw jack, permitting three dimensional
magnetic field plots. The design also includes a custom mount for an ultrasonic
distance sensor which optimizes the range and precision of the sensor, and
allows the user to track the probe throughout data retrieval. Different areas
of engineering discipline were utilized for this project. The probe was
designed and CADed to facilitate dimension-specific machining. The ActivityBot
chassis was machined to mount the distance sensor and hall sensor. And a
C-based program was constructed from different coding sub-objectives that were
brought together with a Graphical User Interface (GUI) designed for
straightforward user operation in Labview.
