:title: Strawberry Harvesting Robot
:date: 2014
:image: cabin.png
:client: ?
:Client_Link: ?
:Service: Design and Prototype Fabrication

.. raw:: html

   <iframe width="560" height="315"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/JEPbCn02o-4" frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen></iframe>

| Team members: Colin Brown, Oliver Chen, Vijay Ganesan, Molly Hoelper, Roger LeMesurier, Evan Racah, Scotty Waggoner
| Advisers: Dr. Cristina Davis, Dr. Kent Wilken, Dr. Stavros Vougioukas

Human workers are essential to strawberry harvesting because of their speed,
accuracy, and judgment. However, manual strawberry harvesting requires workers
to carry the strawberries to their collection points, often while traversing on
a narrow and muddy path. Transportation time consumes up to 20% of working time
for strawberry harvesters, and can be a safety issue. The primary objective of
this project is to design, build, and test a harvest-aid robotic vehicle that
will increase the efficiency of human workers by transporting strawberry flats
from the field harvesters to the furrow ends quickly and safely. The robot
should require neither external devices nor modifications to the current field
environment, and operate intuitively in order to minimize training. The robot
will fit in a single 10-inch furrow and be small and light enough to be carried
by two persons (under 50 pounds). The shuttle uses four motors that are mounted
to a lightweight aluminum frame, and includes a tray coupled with a suspension
system to ensure that the strawberries are not damaged by rough terrain. For
navigation, the robot uses hardware including a CMOS camera, several ultrasonic
sensors, and encoders, as well as software including sophisticated image
processing, filtering, and control. This proof-of-concept will allow for future
developments including navigation software and hardware improvements,
suspension refinement, and robot weight and manufacturing modifications.
